Sobol
Sobol total order coefficents with respect to area under the ROTEM curve for N=5000. The area under the curve was largely controlled by the fibrin control parameters (far right) and by the rate constant for generation of fibrin by fibrinogen, as catalyzed by fibrin (k_cat_fibrinogen). Since thrombin catalyzes fibrin generation, k_inhibition_ATIII, the rate constant that controls how quickly thrombin is deactivated by anithrombin also plays a large role in determining the area under ROTEM curve, as do the the parameters that control initiation (trigger control parameters). 

Training
Multiobjective optimization with JuPOETs allowed us to generate a family of parameter vectors for each of the eight cases. The thick black line shows the averaged experimental ROTEM data (over two runs), the thin shows the average model performance for the eight best parameter sets for the case, and the grey shows one standard deviation based on the eight best parameter sets. The y axis shows clot amplitude in mm (firmness). 

Testing
Using the family of parameter sets generated by JuPOETs, we selected the parameter sets that performed the best on each objective to predict the ROTEM curves for the other four patients, giving a set of eight parameter vectors with which to predict. The thin black line shows the average prediction, while the thick black shows the averaged measured ROTEM curve for the patient. The y axis shows clot amplitude in mm (firmness). These parameters capture tPA=0 micromolar case very well for patients 4,9, and 10, but slightly underestimate the fibrin generation rate and total about generated for patient 3. Additionally, they capture the tPA = 2 micromolar case for patient 10, but do not do a very good job of capturing the fibrin degredation process for the other patients. The model predicts a faster clot break down process than was experimentally observed for these other patients. 

Network
In this model, coagulation is initiated by the addition of trigger (TF-FVIIa), which then activates [FV+FX], which then complexes with platelets to form the prothrombinase complex, which very quickly converts prothrombin to thrombin. This thrombin can then convert more prothrombin to thrombin, which then catalyzes the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin. The generated fibrin in then broken down by plasmin. Coagulation is controlled by ATIII, which inhibits trigger as well as thrombin's auto-activation, as well as TFPI, which inhibits the activation of [FV+FX]. TFAI and PAI-1 both regulate fibrin generation and degreation, with PAI-1 inhibiting the action of tPA and uPA, while TAFI inhibits the activation of plasminogen.
